50 LUX E TBNEBRIS.

Having thus been put in possession of what may be
considered in the main a fair representation, as far
as it goes, of the present state of knowledge respect·
ing the part the human body plays with reference to
the phenomena of consciousness, the reader will be ina
better position to follow the analysis of such pheno·
mena, and the inquiry may be proceeded with.

ξ XXL The facts of the Physioal Revelation enter
consciousness, as has been said, through the ovenses
of the five external senses Impressions from with-
out, whether from our own bodies (which with
reference to the seat of consciousness, the brain,
may be considered to be without) or from material
things distinct from our bodies, strihe on the outward
extremities of the nerves of sense, and there give
riso to nerve-currents which are transmitted to the
cerebral extremities of these nerves, and are received
at those parts of the brain which are called the sen·
sory ganglia, and which united constitute the sen·
sorium3 and simultaneously with the arrival of these
nerse-surrents, objective phenomena, in the form of
objects of sense, spring up in consciousness: if the
optio ganglia be acted upon, colours and lights and
shades3 if the auditory ganglia, sounds3 if the
olfactory, smells3 the gustatory, >tastes3 the ganglia,
of touch, tactile phenomena. And the affection pro-
duced on the senses by such phenomena depends on
the effect produced by the nerva-current on the sen-
sory ganglia. If this effect be in accordance with its
structural organisation, so as to elicit and call into
energy harmonicusly its functional capabilities, then,
agreement existing between the impressing thing

 

