INTRODUCYION. 15

taught us how to procuro physical good We shall
understand each other, and, having learnt the lawe
which unite human beings‚ be enabled to live together
harmonicusly.

Botis, either through inertness or fear to disturb
the crude notions which a superficial survey of the
subject has formed, we refrain from inquiring more
deeply‚ then all progress must cease 3 our present
condition of moral and social disorder will continue,
and psychica] concord and happiness be impossible.
Moreover‚ physical happiness will be impossible also.
To apply physieal truth so as to secure physical
happiness requires co-operation. It would be as
impossible for an individual, however learned, to
procure physical good for himself by his own un-
assisted powerS, as it would besor a single hero,
however well equipped, to conquer and hold a
province. Organisation and mutual help are neces·
sary in both instances. Competition and the struggle
of selfish interests will never secure physical good
Competition is so far preferable to monopoly that, by
the antagonism which it involves, it developes
strength, while monopoly enervates by the wantos
such antagonism 3 but both of them are equally hort.
ful to the weak:—the one by excluding them from the

conflict, the other by crushing them in the struggle.
Until eo-operation and organisation of labour are
accomplished, physical happinesS, aa a pecual coa·
ditiora of society, is impossible3 men will, either
from ignorance, thoughtlessness‚ or wiliulness, injure
each other, either by sins of omission or commis-
sion.

 

