socrat„ 193

stances and abandoning their pursuit; but never
voluntarily. To abandon voluntarily an object, the
mind must be under the influenoe of higher motives,
and the love that is capable of this is not passionate
love, though it may be every whit as deep and as
ardent: for that love is not passion which leaves the
will at liberty for other motives to aot. Finally,
passionate love is liable to change3 for, as hasbeen
said, its objecta are dreams, and dreams are soon
dispelled when they come into contaot with realities.
Passionate love, then, is blind, imperious, selfish,
fickle, and treacherous3 in every one of which
particulare passionless love, the child of intelligente,
is its opposite. Gifted with clear insight, this one
perceives nothing but the fact3 and perceiving, it
understands3 and understanding, it forgives. cht
eomprcodrc c'cst tout pcrdooner : it comprehends cll
—both the error and its causes-and finds excuse
for and perdone the trespass. And divining and
sharing the thoughts of other persons, it also by
intuition divinas and shores their feelings3 and loves

-wishing their good, not its own. Love, the Α ὀ

passionless, then, loves, because it knoroo. “ You
would like the Smiths, if you knew them,” said a
friend to Charles hamb. “ If Ι knew them, my dear
follow, of course I should like them,'' was the reply.
The heart of the genial humourist had divined a truth
which many a learned writer on moral philosophy
has failed to discover. Knowledge, then, is the
condition upon which this kind of love depends, and,
that being so, where opportunities of fulfilling this
condition best exist, there this sentiment is most to
rt

 

