352 nux s rswsnrrs.

one path towards error is closed, and the road to
truth at the same time opened.’' If then the writer,
in his attempt at sounding the depths of consciousness‚
has been too ambitious, over-estimating the length
of his line and the weight ol his plummet‚ some other
person, more happilp⁷ circumstanced in these respecto,
may hereafter succeed3 and to his success such fail-
ure may contribute, by directing him from misleading
fallacies.

In the meantime, however, the writer honestl)⁷
believes that his conclusione are in the main sound‚
and challenges criticism. And should exception be
taken to any ol them as tending to create disturbance
by subverting opinions that are at present considered
settled, he would demur to this mode of silencing con-
troversies‚ and would reply in the words of Galileo‚

ifhe might without presumption appropriate to his
own use the modest expressions of that great man3
“Philosophy herself cannot fail to receive benefit
from our dispute3 because if our views are true, new
acquisitions will have been made by her3 if false, by
their refutation, the existing doctrine will be the
more firmly established.”

 

