sarnam. 263

Such cases must be referred-like those in which
suffering has not been justified, as far as we ean see,
hy the resultâ€”to the category of imperfeotly com-
prehended facts. We infer, from analogy and from
the major premiss arrived at by the reasoning already
given, that all is good3 that the subsequent history,
could it be seen, would rectify the apparent inequality
or iniquity. We believe that, in this latter class of
casea, the discipline that is due and that has been
withheld will be inflicted3 and that, in the former
class of cases, the fruit of that which has been ad-
ministered will be manifested.

And thus faith is strengthened hythe fact that
whenever we cau trace individual suffering to ite
fruit, such fruit is good to that individual. Adversity
develops mankind individually as well as collectively.
The struggle with surrounding things sharpens the
intellect and stimulates the conceiving faculty.
Conceptions are formed of a loftier kind, and the
contemplation thereof elevates the psyche and with-
draws it from the mean and ignoble things which
immediately enoircle it. And in the pnrsuit of such,
the character is strengthened by the vigorous exercise
of the will and courage, and resolution and fortitude
imparted. Conceptions of manliness and virtue may
be inculcated by education, but they can only be
developed by actual life aud its experiences. That
physical and moral wrong teach circumspection,
vigilance, and rectitudo, and that these are liberating
influences leading to nobleness, and to knowledge of
beanty, goodness, and truth, and to correct concep-
tions of duty and of right, these are 'propositione

 

