INTRODUCTION. 3

aeting on, and being acted on by, the mind in their
passage through the brain, are not to be got at in

their material form, but are only cognisable hythe
phenomena which they produce in eonseiousness, it
seemed necessary that such examination should be
performed by the proper analyst of those phenomenaâ€š
-by the metaphysician.

The conclusion then having been arrived at, that
the ascertaining the function of the brain was a
matter of paramount importunes, and that a method
existed by which it might be atbained, accomplish-
ment seemed easy3 for the subject-matter, eonseious-
ness, lay within reach: not requiring, like that of
the physical seiences, either favourable and rare
opportunities, or the aid of elaborate and eostly
instrumenta of researoh. The work seemed already
done.

Time, which dispels illusione, confirms truth: it
also sobers enthusiasm. Whatever advantage we
possess in having the phenomena of eonseiousness
always at hand for study, is more than counter-
balanoed by the unsubstantial nature of such and
the extentos the subject. To grasp firmly with the
mental museles the ideas which exist in the mind,
resolve them into their clemente, compare them with
each other, form judgments and deductions, and
combine them rightly into well-cohering structures
of nuth, requires as much-probably far more-
expenditure of brein-power than is made use of while
employing the musoles of the body in performing the
seme processes on material things3 while, to carry
the process through the whole range of consciousness

 

