conservamur. 3 37

psychical training, and so by a system of moral
hygiene prevent such vicious psychical conditions.
And further, the criminal mind being better under·
stood, better methods will be adopted both to rectify
it when detected, and to prevent the contagion of
example: correction, painful if requisita, will be
administered with a firm yet considerate hand ; the
good of the criminal himself being the object aimed
at, in conformity with the great guiding principle
which should rule in all transactions between man
and man. And if it should be found, as has been
asserted by many psychologists, that there are cases
in which long habit has become so deep rooted and
inveterate as to amount to disease, so that through
indulged inclination the moral stature has become
incurably bent and contracted, and the elavating
powers, through disease, permanently disabled, and
what has been called morel insenity induced-the
intellect remaining sound and the ideas correct, but
the psyche incapacitated from rising or being raised
so as to take elevated views-then the existence of
such cases must be admitted, and conduct adopted
towards them consistent with the safety of tha com-
manity and the dictates of enlightened humanity.
Nor need tho timorous fear lest a crimina] lav, based ⁴
on rational principles, should be such as would cease
’ to deter vicionsly inclined persons from crime. Itis
not found that improved physical therapeutica favour ‚
the increase of disease, and there is no reason to
suppose that a different result would follow fronr
improved moral therapeutica.

And so with regard to all the other problema

r

 

