160 rur E rabsaris.

that our moral diffusuros, like our intellectual and
physical, are relative only, not absolute3 that there

are moral excellencies to which even the best man
cannot raise himself—the elevating influence being
wanting3 and moral degradation to which even the
lowest man will not stoop—some higher motivo
restraining him 3 that what the low man isto the
high, the high man is in turn to some higher,—the
degree of rectitude of each being regulated by his
own moral standard3 and that the moral standard of
men—natural endowments being the same-varies
with variations of moral instruction and training‚
just as intellectual and physical excellencies vary
with intellectual and physical instruction and train-
ing 3—when we have clearly learnt this, then, and
not till then, shall we properly understand and form
just views of each other.

Our fodore, therefore, in completely understanding
other persons arises from our not completely under-
standing ourselves3 and from the same cause arises
our failure in understanding society. Our sociology
has failed through defective psychology. For if we
could understand theone, we could understand the
many3 if the facts separately, the facts collectively,
and by induction arriye at the general laws, and so
learn the great psychical cosmos—the world of
humanity, of which each psyche is a component part 3
and, perceiving rightly both the facts which compose
it and the forces that operate in and on it, ι
comprehend both what it is and why it is so‚—as in
the case of the physical cosmos. But until we have
clearly perceived these two things :-l. That the

 

