SPIRITUAL. 239

attribute of man which enables him to penetrate into
all mysteries, and so to elevate himself from the
condition of the brute, and to rise into communion
with the Divina-has been placed, by these authorities,
under aban, and Christianity—a light sent from on
high to free man’s mind from error-has been per-
verted by their ingenuity into an actual obstacle to
ro ress.

pllud in order to quiet the demands of the heart
which will not put up with negations, and to divert
the thoughts from more dangerous contemplations,
there has been invented a plentiful supply of forms Ι
and ceremonies, of dead symbols and empty formulas 3
and this sharn spiritual nutriment, from which every-

thing capable of giving to the soul either warmth or .

vigour hasbeen carefully excluded,-these “ stones '’
haye been distributed plentifully for food3 impossi-
bilities have been required from the beart, and laws
imposed upon it contrary to its nature3 and tho
intellect has been trained to see things in false
lights and through distorted media. And the result
of such interposition of shams between the spiritual
region, and the intelleot and heart, has been two-
fold: first, moral depravity; and secondly, spiritual
inanition. On tho one hand, a race of sceptics and
infidele—too acute to be imposed upon-either
venting their disgust at the imposition by covert
scoffs and sneersat the whole thing, or, worse, oon-
oealing their want of faith under the mask of
hypocrisy3 on the other hand, starwed and frigid
devotees, with hearts unfired by any kindling con-
ceptione, and intellecta warped and perverted by the

 

