SPIRITUAL. 259

the Oosmos is the condition of all progress‚ whether
physical or moral. If surrounding physical things
had harmonised exactly from the first with onr
aensuous and scnsual nature, we should have rested
satisfied therewith3 there would have been no un-
satisfied desires stimulating to inquiry3 and no
advance in physical knowledge would have occurred,
or notions and conceptione of physical heaut)⁷ and
goodness been formed. The intellect would not
have been informed, nor the taste cultivated3 and
neither head nor heart heen improved: our aesthetic,
emotional‚ and theoretic faculties would not have
been called into play—perhaps would not have been
formed We should ‘have remained animal. So
also, if moral wrong had never existed-if from the
first we had been so constituted as either not to be
dependent for our happiness on our fellow·men‚ or,
being dependent on them, their ideas and sentimenta
had been entirely in accord with our own, then these
would have stagnated3 there would have been no
necessity for studying our neighbours 3 and there
would have been no advance, intellectually or
morally. But disagreement provokes contest3 judg-
ments are formed, and, hy the law of natural selec-
tion, the fittest-that which fits most and is most
in accord with the facts of the Cosmus, and is there-
fore the best possible at the time—conquers and
survives3 and so moral progress is aecured.

Wrong, then, whether physical or moral, is, with
reference to man collectively, the condition of pro-
gress. The forces of nature are weighted on the side
of right. Pain, privatim, and disagreement are

 

