PSYCHICAL. 129

intellectas the cause of progress‚ it is implied that it
must be guided by reason 3 which is equivalent to
saying what has just been stated, via, that it must
be made use of honestly and uprightly. When he
speaks of morality, it is evident that he means the
conventional-morality of society, which teaohes that
authority, not reason, is the sovereign to which
ohedience is due. Taken in this sense, his proposi-
tion is plain enough and indeed sels-evident. Pro·
gress is departure from what is fixed and established
to something further on 3 the perception of that
something is affected by the intellect 3 and the
recognition by the psyche of the same and of the
obligation which its perception entails, is, hythe
very act, a denial of the supremacy of authority.
That Mr Buckle, when using the word “morality,'’ had
in his mind conventional morality, is clear from the
instance which he adduced to prove his proposition.
George the Third, whom he brings forward as an
illustraticn of a moral but unintellectual man, was a
person of very feeble intellect and narrow mental
capacity, it is true ; and what mind he had was
probably very imperfeotly furnished with ideas. He
was als0, perhaps, in the conventional sense of the
word, a moral man, aa, aman who above all things
respected authority and the established laws and
usages of society, and rightly endeavoured to carry
out in his practice what he believed to be rights but
he most certainly could nothe called a moral man in
the sense which it has been attempted to show is the
true one in which the word morality should be under-
stood ; vin, a man perfectly free and unprejudiced,
1

 

