168 rur a vaunnam.

superior or inferior in quality to the notions already
present-and out of this stoclr of knowledge our
notions of psychica] heauty aud goodness are
⁶ derived, our psychical aesthetic faculty developed‚ and

our moral standard raised. By the exercise of this
faculty we learu to form just views of the character
and conduct of our neighbours‚ to give due
consideration to their rights and feelings, and to
correct and control that tendency to attach undue
weight to its own interests aud inclinatione, which
even the strongest mind cannot prevent itself from
doing without this sort of discipline.

ξ LIX. By the exercise' cf this psychico-aesthetic
faculty, then, our moral standard of measurement is
being constantly raised and improved, and we
prououuce the sentimenta aud conductos other per-
sons good or had, and form high or low conceptione
of them, according as we have had to rise above or
lower oursclves below the level of this standard in
order to obtain their views. This faculty constitutes
our moral sensa The condition on which its
development depends is that the mind shall not be
unduly oooupied by, or the psyche absorbed in,
selfrsh, cr what have been called psychico-sensuous‚
considerations. When the psyche is disengaged from
these and free to move, its attention is readily
directed to what is passing in the world around it,
and thus the materiale upon which its action depends
are collected. Morality is, in fact, neither more uor
less than good taste applied to the relations which
human heings have with each other-right perception
and discrimination3 aud it may be cultivated and

, A

 

